She likes red roses.
It makes our body firm.
We live in Bangladesh.
Human life is very short.
Traffic police have heavy responsibilities.
Cricket is my favourite game.
Mass awareness should be created.
There may be some difficulties.
What is her name?
Our college is very ancient.
Canada is a beautiful country.
I love my daughter.
This is most wonderful sight
We are reading a book
Who prepares your breakfast?
Attend your classes regularly.
Is your father a teacher?
Please take your dress.
They are sometimes given opportunity.
Please turn over the page.
The matter was beyond imagination.
It was difficult to do.
Shut the door.
Read the above sentence carefully.
Everybody loves a good boy.
His books are selling well.
I will go there.
Only applicable for postpaid subscriber.
Business News:
For more information please visit:
How green its leaves are!
I opened the southern window.
Moreover, Churchill is not alive.
Sir really loved giving lectures.
We called him Uncle.
We quickly began to walk.
Let me have some fun.
I will never forgive you.
Everyone laughed.
But nobody asked me anything.
I will never forget him.
Your drawing is completed here.
How beautiful they look!
The child was very beautiful.
We are all Bangladeshi citizen.
Government operates all state activities.
In democracy, government changes periodically.
This is called federal state.
We live in a State.
Nilu lives in a village.
This is called interior decoration.
It does not shrink easily.
Give reasons for your answer.
Express them as successive ratio.
Are the two angles equal?
It was a quite high standard institution.
He established a pillar there.
You are cordially invited.
It disturbs my regular studies.
Thank you for your letter.
We passed one night there.
My dear Shohag,
Your loving brother,
I received your letter.
Trees maintain ecological balance.
I am now terribly upset.
Convey my compliments to parents.
Many people are wounded.
On behalf of the guardians.
We were so much embarrassed.
They waste their valuable time by actively participating in politics.
Corruption is one of the main problems of developing countries.
Every morning we see two wonderful things .
We cannot even imagine our student life without a dictionary.
A primary school is an institution where formal education begins.
Yesterday I had to witness a very shocking street accident.
Food must include proteins, carbohydrates, fat, vitamins, minerals and water.
Today’s world is called a global village.
Love of power is inherent in every human being.
We have been reading together for three years.
Culture reflects the way of living, eating, talking and learning.
It is said that women are fond of shopping.
Science has taught man to think rationally.
Their strength and courage inspire us.
Physical exercise is very necessary to preserve good health.
It is circulated without the approval of the government.
Instead of forgetting them, we feel for them more deeply.
Among the good virtues of man, patience is one.
There are two ways of using knowledge.
Various factors are responsible for a climate change.
Campus violence is a common affair now.
He blamed for his condition on fate.
I am watching a nice movie.
How many sisters do you have?
Is your breakfast served at the same time every day?
When do you work, by day or by night?
Did you see any accident in life?
Can I check your ticket, please?
The rain was beating against the window.
He is the citizen of tomorrow .
He will stay here till tomorrow.
Every man has ups and downs in life.
The louder you cry, the more you will feel.
Recently, activities have been taken for raising awareness about autism.
In this process, we now have the long-awaited Education Policy.
Teachers must responsibly carry out their professional and other duties.
14. Is there any pre-requisite to avail this new offer?
The details of the new offers are as follows:
This was a distance of around 700 kilometres.
That is why I am talking about him.
So, this is also a very alarming issue for us.
Then one day Rashed brought some bad news.
Stay with me, I don’t have any children.
The granary will be fulfilled with rice.
Next, we can display it at home with frame.
2. God has empowered man and woman different ways.
Team work: briefly discuss about the ways of getting citizenship.
Most of the states in the present world are capitalist.
In the Presidential form of government, president holds all powers.
All the administrative decisions are taken here.
It punishes those who violated rules and regulations.
Before the independence in 1971, we were citizens of Pakistan.
The process of home management consists of several successive steps.
We get natural light from the sun.
It will make their world easier and beautiful.
It needs to take fresh seasonal vegetables always.
A person can impress others with a pleasant personality.
Only the numbers with positive sign are used in Arithmetics.
the government accepted the proposal temporarily.
Taking preparation for the examination is your main responsibility.
Our village stands on the bank of river Jamuna.
My best regards for you and mother,
I was born in this village.
You know that these are historical places.
Your hobby is visiting historical places and beauty spots.
We have strict law, but it is not implemented.
We have to advance inspite of all difficulties.
Besides, you visited some other interesting places also.
Please inform me the time of your arrival.
Pollution is a major threat to our modern civilization.
We should conquer poverty and disease with the help of science.
Habitually, we do not feel wonder anymore, but neither of them is insignificant.
It does not cost us anything, but its attainment brings us a huge profit.
Unfortunately, our system of education is not time befitting neither high standard.
Besides, excessive use of mobile phone may decrease the power of our memory.
They are deprived of seeing the dry weather and nature of a village.
The children who live under the poverty line are the underprivileged children.
This is creating a serious crisis in the economy of the developing world.
It is a long story of great struggles, adventures and heroic deeds.
Here we get news about the latest political movements and changes in the government.
The person who always does his duty in time, is a punctual man.
This dowry system has been prevalent for many years among the Hindus.
The visions have created hope among the mass people which should be implemented successfully.
It is thought that Samuel Johnson was the first man who published dictionary first.
If a diary is tainted with too much of self, it becomes a failure.
Thus just be contemplating we cannot make our life a life of actions.
The law alone will not be able to remove it from the society.
These are held in different cities and towns on some special occasions.
The cyclone is always accompanied by heavy rainfall and tidal bore.
Most of the time they were absent during the budget session.
The curator looked down and saw the bullet hole in his white linen shirt.
Who was appointed as the coach of the national women's team?
What kind of education system can be suitable for our country?
A patriot can sacrifice even his own life for the good of his country.
She said, her government has been working for welfare of the people by establishing peace.
In these cases, the procedure prescribed by Ministry of Food shall be followed.
Ensuring quality education for all is a great challenge for us.
25. In future, steps will be taken to establish a technical university.
The main aims and objectives of law studies are as follows:
Besides, admission test will be conducted under the rules and supervision of National University.
Please click on this link to fully understand our expectations and your business obligations.
The exact details of use will be determined by the individual airline.
You must always do this to avoid fraudulent users to send SMS from your account.
You can subscribe to Evening news service to get the news alert at the evening.
Free talktime amount will be distributed within 72 hours of each disbursement period
This was an extraordinary document demanding freedom from economic exploitation, deprivation and oppression.
Mr. Asfan Chowdhury asks for better and more thorough investigations into these issues.
On 1 November 2007 the judiciary was separated from the executive branch of the government.
Food and drinks began to be served at the dining table.
It is true we have made significant progress in these areas in the last decade.
Meanwhile, 14,000 cyclone shelters have been constructed and more are on the way.
Finishing the lecture he said, you do not need to give vote anymore.
Last year we used to play treasure hunting day and night.
Again we observe that physical fitness is related with mental spontaneity.
This theory gives the right explanation as to the origin of state.
State enacts laws to ensure rights of the citizens and freedom.
In the capitalist state, private ownership over the property is recognized.
In the Presidential form of government president is elected for a definite tenure.
President is the highest person in the administrative division of Bangladesh.
6. The members of the parliament elect the speaker, deputy speaker and various parliamentary committees.
Peoples of all sorts contact the office of the local government on any need.
During play time also we will play together, because we are all friends.
So, it is necessary to use different kinds of resources to get what we want.
Effects of colours- Different colours create different kinds of feelings in our mind.
After the birth of baby, a relationship is created between the baby and the family.
The family goes through a lot of struggle to maintain these things.
As a result, the weight of body will be increased quickly.
Complications increases resulting from the disease and it takes longer time to get well.
However, mild warm water can be used in washing nylon cloth.
We need to be careful about some matters while removing stains from clothes.
15. Labours were employed to reap paddy from a paddy field.
9. Total price of an exercise book and a pen is 75 taka.
(b) Measure the angles of the two figures and fill up the table.
For this, he largely followed the footsteps of the Chinese pilgrim hieun tsang.
So, you are thinking of joining your roommates, provided your father gives you permission.
You have visited some of such places and intend to visit some more.
There are also news about business and sports in the newspapers.
But since you have got no job you find it impossible to continue your studies.
And do not evoke any concern in the relevant quarters of authority.
State in details about your qualification and fitness for the post.
We do not work ourselves and we even do not know how to praise the good works done by others.
In this period a man loses physical and mental strength and becomes dependent on others like a child.
If the reporters of a newspaper report well, the newspaper has a great demand among the people.
The frugal men can undoubtedly be happy in their family life and they can achieve economic security.
To make our life happy and peaceful the necessity of a little rest from work and worry is undeniable.
The National ID card will serve twenty two types of advantages including land purchase, bank loan and passport etc.
But it is a matter of regret that our rivers are on the verge of extinction.
All the colleges and universities have become mini cantonments which are full of weapons and ammunitions.
in the face of difficulties, they lose heart, give up their efforts altogether and lay the blame on fate.
In internet system a telephone line connects with a computer and like telephone number, Internet communication is also maintained by its own number.
But in the selection of circle we have to be careful as a man is known by his company.
A businessman can see the condition of the world market just by sitting in this cafe.
It is high time that we take better steps for computer education to avail ourselves of this golden opportunity.
Digital governance will curb crime and corruption and pave the way for our country's rapid development.
The tea garden was designed like a Persian Garden, which was first introduced in India by first Mughal Emperor, Babur.
They were up at dawn, but somehow they still seemed to have a great deal to do.
5.5.4 To create markets, cooperation will be provided to entrepreneurs for participation in international fairs and exhibitions;
We all know that a right set of principles is essential to achieve some targeted goals.
Pragmatic initiatives will be encouraged and the most effective ones, found out by evaluation, will be pursued and supported.
19. At the tertiary level, teachers will be persuaded to carry on their research in their own institutions.
9. Commuting to schools will be made safe for the girls so that they do not encounter any difficulty.
And it will be directed toward forming interest in the learners’ mind for manual labour and dignity of labour.
We exist to help our customers get the full benefit of communications services in their daily lives.
Now you can choose from our two versions of GP connection to run your business more efficiently than ever before.
20. How will I know about the status of my account that whether it is activated or deactivated?
It is a call center based service where human agents are responsible for answering all queries placed by the callers.
You will receive an SMS notification asking you to dial 0 , to retrieve the received message.
All information related to your Card or Bank Account will be exclusively dealt by the Payment Gateway and the Bank.
Grameenphone also arranged other renowned designers to design the practice and other attires of Bangladesh National Cricket Team.
Members of our corporate family will use this information to send you marketing communications only if you've requested their services;
It’s like asking a blind man to cross a highway – ensuring him that everything will be fine.
Governments will then have to act transparently and would have to be accountable for their actions.
But, after the actual results are known, one should consider the margin of error in the preceding poll.
Like our previous tenure, this time also, we have launched an all out drive against militancy and corruption.
We have taken various price control measures to stabilise market and ensure reasonable price of agricultural commodities for the producers.
During our 1996-2001 tenure we implemented several projects for the improvement of our health care system.
The Bangladesh Ambassador thanked the Asia Society for their useful publication on Bangladesh’s foreign trade and investment.
The ball would go right through his hands without him even realizing he had to catch it.
If I had known you were so little I never would have told you to come.
Though he was having irritating behavior in his later years, people still respected him for his talent.
We all love to see natural scenery- different scenes of rural-Bangladesh, fields wide up to the horizon.
Later when the daughter of Pharaoh went bathing in the river, she heard the cry of child in the reed.
Family fulfills the psychological needs of its members by giving them love, affection and kind behaviour.
Based on economic system, states are classified into two categories, such as capitalist and socialist state.
However, a permanent policy and programme can not be taken as a result of frequent change in the unwritten constitution.
The parliament membership is cancelled if the member remains absent from the parliament session for 90 days in a row.
In the new state, special importance of Local government was one of the main features of 1972 Constitution.
Considering the interest of the future generation it is necessary to decrease the present increasing rate of population.
To ensure the food security, it is essential to increase the production, availability, purchasing capacity etc.
The physical structure of a boy and a girl is different, but the expectation of each is same.
Thus, it saves time and energy as we do not need to wash and clean them.
The curtain may be used to separate the places of dining and living in the same room.
c. Which quality of Roni has been developed through the activities mentioned in the stem? – Explain.
So far you have learned about some of the problems a family of disabled child may face.
Do not take any food, toys, money and any material from an unknown or a less acquainted person.
Vitamins increase the body’s ability to protect disease and keep the body healthy, strong and active.
Patient needs to take plenty of fluids, for example, milk, sharbat, fruit juice, soup, green coconut water etc.
People can buy rayon cloth easily as they are available in the market with different reasonable prices.
Use potassium per manganate solution and oxalic acid solution if the stain is not removed with soap water.
Moreover, there is a risk to have accident if the burning coals come out of the iron.
Abeer divided an apple into two equal parts and gave one part to his brother Kabir.
The data can be more easily organized through putting in tabular form which is discussed below.
This journal published detailed excavation reports of many sites apart from research articles and reports on field surveys.
You will be glad to know that I have made quite a good preparation for it.
You know, we are the only nation in the world that showed how to honour ones mother tongue.
There are not sufficient numbers of chess boards, benches, chairs and tables in the common room.
But we have not thought that it will be fixed as shortly as it has been.
But unfortunately the major political parties in Bangladesh forget this great truth both in the streets and in the parliament.
Sir, I should be highly thankful to you if you would publish the following letter in your esteemed daily.
I would be grateful if you kindly consider my prayer and appoint me to the post.
We have to be respectful to the rights, facilities, likes and dislikes of other people in the way we expect them to respectful to ours.
I have such an experience of having an unwelcome guest who visited my house just before the day of my final exam.
If the rules and regulations in the examination centre are loose, various malpractices are adopted by the examinees and the examinees are not judged properly.
Most importantly, character has to be reformed by regenerating the decaying human values and by inculcating religious teachings in an effective and unfailing manner.
The song was so enchanting that he listened to it spell-bound, and when he went up the hill he carried it in his heart.
Urban people try to keep a while away from their blind mimicry of western culture and tend to be a Bangali at least this day.
A shopping place or a market is generally located in a centre where communication and transportation facilities to and from various places exists.
As a trade fair gives scope to a country to display her products: friendly countries gladly respond to the call of the host countries.
We may imagine a situation in which there is a chasm on the road that a traveller wants to cross by making a leap.
Now a man from one part of the world can communicate with a person of another part of the world in a second.
People in the habit of much talking sometimes unconsciously disclose many private or secret matters that make them fool or ashamed.
Parents should keep in their mind that only enough favourable environment can help to develop the latent talent of their children.
To encourage female education our government has already taken some positive steps, such as giving stipends to girls, recruiting more female teachers etc.
The patient, and the truthful, and the obedient, and those who spend and those who ask forgiveness in the morning times.
The weather forecast says that though the weather is going to be bad now, but it is not going to be so tomorrow.
Just last night we were saying we’d come and get you ourselves if you hadn’t written back to Ron by Friday.
She said, I often think of all the victims of terrorism, especially those of the 9/11 attacks in New York and elsewhere around the world.
4.4.3 To promote export, loans with lower interest rates and soft terms will be made available for import of capital machineries and raw materials.
In addition to the documents mentioned in sub-paragraph 7.11 above private sector importers will be required to submit the following documents:
(3) A pre-shipment certificate from an internationally reputed surveyor regarding quality of the above mentioned used parts is to be submitted.
15. to ensure a creative, favorable and joyful environment for the students at the primary and secondary levels for their proper protection and congenial development.
Steps will be taken so that the students can understand the ideals and spirit of Islam and learn about its doctrines and ways of life.
With this end in view, new institutions will be established at government and non-government levels and the existing ones will be strengthened.
Though sports and physical education have been occupying a special place in our country for a long time, the achievement in this field is questionable.
to strengthen the education system to facilitate in building up a knowledge-based society that can produce necessary innovative ideas directed towards national progress;
We may be diverse with an employee base of more than 4500 but we are ONE BIG FAMILY with a single VISION.
In this scenario the below calendar showing the period of availing the new offer for the said subscriber on two months view point:
This offer is available exclusively for Grameenphone New and Existing Subscribers and initially will be sold solely from our own Grameenphone Centers.
Join GP's band wagon and enjoy free BDT 150 talktime, 500 SMS and 45 MB internet after buying a new prepaid connection for BDT 149
The building architecture aims to inspire and empower employees through open spaces and open desk sitting arrangement for all, including the CEO and management teams.
The growth in revenue was mainly in voice revenues due to subscription growth and revenues from sale of GP branded handsets and data cards.
The Meghna river didn’t have a bridge, so the common people used their boats to take the armies and their weaponry across the river!
he perhaps is best remembered for his defection in extraordinary circumstances in August 1971 to the Bangladesh government from his service as a Pakistani ambassador.
But instead of nominating the person who had offered me fifty crore taka I had chosen someone else to contest the election for my party.
Since taking office as Premier in 2003, he has been a key part of the fourth generation of the leadership in Communist Party of China.
Now you can ask the question, why Alo-Star spent so much time, energy and money to publish such unreal, unbelievable and unacceptable polls?
We have observed with great admiration the transformation Bhutan had undergone under the visionary guidance of the Fourth King, His Majesty King Jigme Singye Wangchuck.
Due to industrialization and excessive emission of green house gases by the developed world, global mean temperature is shooting up resulting in the sea-level rise.
The language "Bangla" is spoken by over 250 million people worldwide, primarily in Bangladesh and an Indian state of West Bengal.
It is well known that most of the problems and challenges related to gender equality in this region are almost similar.
Then Sir gave another lecture about the nation, culture, history, etc. on the importance of having a name from one’s own country.
I thought about it and realized I couldn’t let the chance of seeing a real team of freedom fighters pass me by.
Before I could kick him again Rashed had taken out his stengun and was saying viciously, Close your eyes you son of a pig.
Later on from his ideas and thinking airplane, land transport and sea ships were invented that are the wonders of modern world.
Designs of flower or creepers and herbs can be made specially on frock, saree, handkerchief, table cloth etc. with chain stitch.
With the baptism a human person being a follower of Jesus at the rebirth in water and spirit attains a new life.
Elected party in democracy forms the government for a fixed period of time and every political party adopt their program based on their policies.
Acting: A parliament session is to be arranged with the participation of students regarding the process of passing a bill in the national assembly.
7. It manages treatments for poultry and animals, sets up farms and do animal husbandry and poultry in the city areas.
The birth controlling medicine should be easy getting and for providing service to control the birth rate, sufficient clinic should be built-up.
Though the situation of the educated females of Bangladesh is little developed, overall the females are neglected and suppressed till to date socially.
Thus, it can be said that the main objective of organization is to determine logical steps to complete an action successfully.
Before buying any appliance we should know the characteristic of the metal, usage, the way of taking care and preservation of the appliance.
The shades of different colour and design enhance the beauty of a room and it bears good taste of a person.
Playing alone while sitting together with other children– Children do not play with each other rather they play alone with toys while sitting together.
2. Water soluble vitamins- The vitamins which are soluble very easily in water but not soluble in fat are called water soluble vitamins.
When a person suffers from dysentery, he also has loose motion and sometimes mucus and blood come out with the stool.
After coming back at home, mother washed both Irfan’s and Sabah’s clothes together in warm water and rubbed the clothes with soap.
5) Before using any remover in a dyed cloth we need to know whether this remover will damage the colour or not.
(2) In the decimal part, horizontal line is to be drawn over the digits in pairs from the right side of decimal point.
Solve the problems of our daily life involving addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of algebraic expressions through proper use of brackets.
Again, on the basis of the angles, the triangles are also of three types: acute angled, obtuse angled and right angled.
At places, these sands and thin clay layers form a composite aquifer, with poor to moderate water-bearing characteristics, capable of yielding water to shallow wells.
The law also provides that arbitration tribunal shall be competent to direct any of the parties to take any interim measures.
Indeed, it is very difficult to fight the vested interest groups, But somehow somebody should start the action somewhere in the greater interest of the nation.
You desire your friend Hamid to open a night school in his locality and teach the illiterate people alongside with his studies.
Out of twenty thousand people of this area most of them are now shelter-less and are living under open sky.
It is a matter of concern because we are not familiar with this fever and there is no specific treatment of it.
They invariably overload the buses in which the passengers are like chickens in a cage sent from one place to another.
Dear Sir, I am badly in need of the books, as listed below, for about a fortnight in order to prepare myself for the examination.
Its meaning is a magnificent society based on technology where all sorts of corruption will come to an end and every body will live a beautiful life.
We grew tired discussing so much on this matter but when the tea was served we became fresh and returned to our discussion with new energy.
Economic analysts agree that the recession has by now crossed the critical threshold of eleven months which has been the average period of longevity for the six major post-war recessions.
Information technology or IT means the combination of all activities related to collecting, processing, storing, using and transmitting data and information through the use of computers and communication networks.
Her green fields overflowing with golden crops, the spotless blue and cloudy sky, her moonlit and pitch dark night— all these present scenes of romantic charm and beauty.
Now we shall do well to equip ourselves with English In order that we may compete with the citizens of other countries and firm stand in the struggle for existence.
If a man has no sense of direction and of purpose in life, he will waste away all his limited time and energy in the weary wilderness of indecision.
If a man or a country tries to be self-reliant and engages its energy and resources, he or it will surely attain self-reliance within a short span of time.
Usually we go for election after five years unless the ruling government loses the majority in the parliament or happens to fall on public demand and unrest.
In this system, a man can make friendship with a person of another part of the world and even a person can choose his life partner through the internet communication.
The thirteenth alive child of Maharshi (a great saint) Debendranath Tagore (1817-1905) and Sarada Devi (1830-1875), Rabindranath was born at Jorashako (twin bridges) Thakur Bari of Calcutta.
While many evaluations have attempted to assess their short-term effectiveness, relatively little is known about their long-term impact nor is there much in the way of comparative assessment across interventions.
But it is more than a river, since for centuries the Ganga has promoted trade, commerce, transport and has helped the economic, social and cultural progress of the country.
Five sector-based Public-Private Partnership Business Promotion Councils are working for improving awareness and capacity of the exporters so as to maintain the continuous increase in supply of export goods.
4.5.12 In case of export, Bank rate of interest, LC commission, miscellaneous service charges, Bank guarantee commission etc will be kept minimum as directed by Bangladesh Bank.
5.6.19 While transferring factory units from Hajaribag to Savar Tannery Village, tannery owners will be cooperated in their plans to produce finished leather from crust leather.
7.4.2 Import of any permissible item for an amount not exceeding US Dollar 50,000/- (Fifty thousand) only during each financial year against remittance made from Bangladesh.
Such goods will not be allowed to bring out side of the port area, if the port of entry and port of export is the same.
They will have to import fabrics, excepting gray fabrics, in regular and continuous length of 18.29 metre or above in “thaan” or standard pieces or size.
26.3.2 A firm or a person will import acid mentioned in para 26.3.1 on commercial basis or for personal use subject to permission of the Ministry of Commerce.
A statement regarding quantity and quality of monthly imported and marketed furnace oil is to be sent to Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation on or before 5th of every month.
It is important to instill moral values, honesty, patriotism, accountability and social responsibility into the youths as they acquire quality modern education and knowledge of contemporary science and technology.
24. Special provisions like free admission, free education materials, free lunch at schools and stipends will be arranged to attract and retain these children in the schools.
15. All technical and vocational education institutes of the country will be put under the control of the Technical Education Directorate to consolidate this education stream.
General duration of Masters course will be one year, for M.Phil 2 years and for Ph.D, it will be 6 years from the date of registration.
10. In order to utilize the infrastructure of 16 commercial institutes of the country more effectively, updated trade courses will be offered and necessary manpower will be recruited.
If all learners, irrespective of boys and girls, cultivate physical education right from their childhood, they will take more care of their health through physical exercises.
1. Steps will be taken to reorganize the status, dignity, facilities and responsibilities of teachers of all levels and streams through an in-depth examination in the perspective of social reality.
Appropriate remedial measures have to be taken to control and discourage as well as to bring an end to these practices that are detrimental to intellectual growth of the students.
This state-of-the-art solution will also help the firms to create their own intranet and enable them to perform office work from any part of the world.
The Village Phone initiative has made tremendous social and economic impact in the rural areas of Bangladesh, creating a 'substantial consumer surplus' for the users.
Mobile Backup is a service that ensures a safe and secure way of storing important data of your mobile phone including Contacts, SMS, Photos, Music, etc.
You authorize GP to assume that any person using the Site with your password and user name either is you or is someone authorized to act for you.
Tore Johnsen said, "I am delighted to take over the helm for Grameenphone, one of the most admired companies in Bangladesh and the leading telecom operator."
To ensure best network and service for our valued customers we have invested BDT 116 crores during this quarter mainly in capacity and quality of network.
The Shareholders as of the record date of 2nd November 2010 will be entitled for this dividend, which will be distributed within the timeframe stipulated by the regulators.
Before attacking the innocent people in Dhaka city, the Pakistan military had either killed or arrested all the Bengali officers in the army and disarmed the rest.
Every time we used to go to jail to visit father it would seem that we would be sadder than he was when we left him.
Fortunately, as it appears, the bank manager did not report this rather unusual transaction immediately to the attention of the Iraqi authorities, who would certainly have been curious.
After concluding that there are no mother tongues, only first tongues, Louis-Jean Calvet says: Nevertheless, the great majority of European cultures use the same image to describe the first language.
It is also reported that two security agencies of Bangladesh government, namely DGFI and NSI, do also secretly conduct opinion polls, the results of which are known only to government.
Prime Minister’s Press Secretary Abul Kalam Azad in a press statement said, foreign minister had telephoned Prime Minister on Saturday 15 January 2011 at 9:30 am (BST).
Here, given the multi-faceted and cross-border aspects of migration costs, it would be important to take collective action to help regulate and combat unethical recruitment practices.
Capital dredging would keep rivers on natural course, deepen them to hold more water, restrict flooding, reduce flood damages, reclaim inundated arable lands, and keep them navigable.
It is now obvious that only by mobilizing and optimizing our synergies, it is possible for us to create a world of shared peace and prosperity.
Amendment of rule 246 was adopted by the 4th Parliament on 11th May 1988 and it was published in the Bangladesh Gazette Extra-ordinary on the same day.
Ambassador Qader expressed his hope that the planned field visits in Bangladesh would expose to the study group the resilient and hard-working nature of the Bangladeshi people.
In meeting held at the Washington Hilton, they discussed about the proposed construction of the training centers at district Headquarters in Bangladesh under the auspices of the Ministry of labour.
I tried to wipe it away but Aru Apa wiped my face with the end of her sari and suddenly noticed my eyes were filled with tears.
Leonardo Da Vinci was born in 1452 B.C. in a small village named Anchiaro, 60 miles away from Florence of Italy in a small town called Vilti.
To cope with the challenges of the fast changing world and to lead Bangladesh to the doorstep of development and prosperity, a well educated and skilled population is needed.
In the legislative assembly of that State, a bill could not be passed due to lack of support of 140 members out of a total of 210.
Secondly, local self-government system is understood as formed by the elected local representatives and empowered body by law in order to meet the local needs for smaller regions.
Those who violated the law and discipline openly and do harm to the lives and assets of the people, they might not be pardoned by any means.
To cope with the challenges of the fast changing world and to lead Bangladesh to the doorstep of development and prosperity, a well educated population is needed.
The organizations that control the standard of the products may let the consumers to know the qualities and standards of different kinds of products after analyzing them.
View card, Post card – We get the pictures of famous places, personalities, important agricultural and industrial goods, handicrafts, natural scenery etc. in a view card or a postcard,.
Unless the law of a country approves someone as adult with the age less than 18 everyone of that country will admit this declaration of the UN.
We also need to consider if the patient is allergic to any particular food or if there is threat of creating complications in patient’s body for taking any particular food.
If we look at our dresses, we will find that some of our dresses are made with simple fabric and some of them are made with designed fabrics.
If it is a dyed cotton or a dyed linen cloth soak the cloth in mild hydrogen per-oxide and sodium hypo-sulphite solution for a while.
Out of three quantities if the ratio of first and second quantities and the ratio of second and third quantities are mutually equal, then the proportion is called continued proportion.
To know the position of a student in seating arrangement in a class-room, his position along a horizontal line as well as along a vertical line is to be known.
The Credit Rating Agency of Bangladesh Limited (CRAB) awarded the bank an A1 rating in the long term and ST-2 rating in the short Term in 2008.
Perhaps in retrospection on the voluminous work done Burgess also, like Cunningham, thought that a large survey organisation is not required to do the remaining work.
When my rickshaw came near Malitola a loaded truck rushed from behind at a very high speed, overtook my rickshaw and hit the rickshaw in my front.
I, therefore, pray and hope that your honor would be kind enough to look into the matter and pass necessary orders so that these reference books are purchased immediately.
It is because of dish-antenna that we sitting in our own drawing room, can enjoy a football or a cricket match played on the other side of the globe.
Being influenced by the satellite TV, the terrorists, dacoits and anti-social elements become active and let loose the reign of terror in society doing anti-social activities.
In the circumstances stated above, I hope that you would be kind enough to give me an opportunity to face the interview to prove my competence for the post.
Last week I took part in a tea party that was thrown by one of my bosom friends to celebrate the victory of Bangladesh football team over India in the SAF Games.
At present schedule banks, Grameen Bank, BCIC and some other Non-government Organizations give capital to help the people set up small and cottage industries in rural areas so that they can get to manage self-employment.
It is said of Newton that shortly before his death be remarked that he was like a child gathering pebbles on the sea-shore, while the vast ocean of truth lay unexplored before him.
Such applicants shall produce a certificate from their respective Head of Department or Organization to the effect that the items to be imported are for their actual use and not for sale.
20. School leavers and elderly people can be turned into competent manpower by designing evening and short courses of vocational or diploma curricula with the use of the facilities of vocational education institutes.
In this education policy, business studies has been treated as an integrated formation of necessary branches of knowledge that are required to conduct the activities of industries, trade and services organizations.
Some measures are to be ascertained in matters of recruitment of quality teachers, improvement of the teachers, capacity development of the teachers already recruited and in order to guarantee optimal utilization of limited national resources.
If any of these conditions shall be deemed invalid, void or for any reason unenforceable, that condition shall be deemed severable and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining condition.
As a Shadow Minister for International Development, I am pleased to see that the UK Government has said it will honor our international aid commitment to spend 0.7 percent of GNI as aid.
I could exercise so much restraint when offered a sum as huge as fifty crore taka and yet was now being blamed for succumbing to the relatively modest sum of five crore taka.
We hope to work closely with them in the next phase, that is, in putting together effective reintegration programmes to ensure sustainable livelihood options for the large number of the returnees.
The teachers and students were jointly trying to mold public opinion about creating honorable posts for the painters in different institutions of the government, necessity of paints in different institutions etc.
More importantly keeping the body clean, taking regularly necessary food, taking proper medical treatment when sick, wearing suitable dress in accordance with weather, doing limited labour, physical exercise and rest are specially remarkable.
It makes students expert and tactful to reach ultimate goal by using limited asset, helps them to fight against unexpected incidents in house-hold and outside by solving various problems in house hold environment.
A disabled child is often the victim of rebuke and scorn as they do not understand things properly and they are often made fun of and given names like mad, mute, retarded, daft head etc.
Materials- The materials that we will need for block printing are – a wooden table, a tray for mixing colours, colour, blocks of different shapes, an old blanket, brush, a piece of Markin cloth etc.
N.B.: To find the square root by division method, if the last digit can not be in pair for of forming pairs from right side, it has to be considered without pair.
Then the obtained marks will be considered one by one and then a tally mark is placed in a column on the right of the first mark put in the class.
Though it is possible to study this subject in any country, the latest facilities are not fully available in our country and moreover the syllabus is not also up to date.
We, the sufferers of the town through your esteemed daily would like to draw the attention of the concerned authority in this matter to take necessary action against these anti-social elements.
Here the humble girl has been glorified in a manner that she has become an extraordinary source of beauty and music being merged with the sights and sounds of nature under the poet’s uncommon fancy’s Shine.
For this purpose, awareness may be created among the general mass about the bad effects of cultural assault and the government may stop telecasting the harmful satellite TV programs to save the nation from the cultural assault.
"Let us all try to test this model of people's empowerment which I believe has the potential to transform our world of seven billion people into one where our future generations may prosper and live in happiness," she said.
Unless there is specific provision in the relevant loan agreement or project agreement concluded with the foreign donors for import on CIF basis, no import shall be allowed on CIF basis without prior approval from the Ministry of Commerce.
The representative of Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission, shall on receipt of information, collect such sample from the Sample Room on the same morning and shall make arrangement for sending reports to the Sample Room after proper examination of the sample.
If a consignment of imported goods is detained by the Customs Authority, the concerned importer may apply to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports with a prayer to issue instruction to the Customs Authority for clearance of the consignment.
26.7.3 Other terms and conditions shall be notified by the Chief Controller in due course and L/C for import of second-hand clothing may be opened only by the selected importers on the basis of such notification.
4. This schooling will include the instructional programs of the mosques, temples, churches and pagodas presently being conducted by the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which seek to impart religious teachings with alphabetical knowledge and modern education with moral lessons.
At the same time, appropriate steps to acquire knowledge will be taken so that the students will get competencies in different branches of knowledge and sciences and will be able to add qualitatively in those areas.
13. The training programs, designed for creating efficient teachers appointed for performing different duties at different types of educational institutions (primary, secondary, higher education, technical, vocational and for the disabled) will include various courses of diverse contexts.
7. At present, private tuition and coaching centers have become rampant in the country due to various malpractices and incongruities in the traditional education system and the erosion of moral values of a section of teaching community.
Fredrik Baksaas said, “With the ambition of connecting the whole of Bangladesh, the Telenor Group expects that the Bangladeshi authorities will establish clear and fair rules for license renewal and for the upcoming 3G license process."
Some people who have been driven out by their guardians because of their dubious natures have been busy forming parties with the help of funds provided by the government and making ill use of the country’s finances.
After independence of Bangladesh in 1971, a significant number of initiatives and institutional measures have been taken by father of the nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to eliminate gender discrimination in every sector of the country.
(2) A question may be addressed to a private member provided the subject-matter of the question relates to some Bill, resolution or other matter connected with the business of the House for which that member is responsible;
The durability of colour and brightness of a carpet made of artificial fiber is more, such as, colour and brightness of the carpets made of nylon and polyester are durable and they are also cheaper in price.
From all these, we can understand that after taking food some activities are happened inside the body and as a result body gets nutrition, remains healthy, we feel hungry and once again we take food to satisfy our appetite.
(6) If a point is put on after every alternate digits of a number starting from right to the left, the number of points will be same as the number of digits in the square root.
In fact, the danger to life has grown so serious that if a person out on the street is late to return, his family gets upset and starts making inquires in the hospitals and police outposts.
Sir, With reference to your advertisement published in The Daily Star on 20 December 2010, I have the honor to offer myself as a candidate for the above mentioned post and enclosing my resume with this letter.
Although some generational differences have existed throughout history, because of more rapid cultural change during the modern era, differences between the two generations increased in comparison to previous times, particularly with respect to such matters as musical tastes, fashion, culture and politics.
It is because of the wrong steps of the majority of our student leaders that the evils like terrorism in the campus, unscheduled closure of institutions, session jam, cramming and copying in the examination halls have struck firm roots in the seats of learning.
It shall be a fundamental responsibility of the State to attain, through planned economic growth, a constant increase of productive forces and a steady improvement in the material and cultural standard of living of the people, with a view to securing to its citizens.
Recalling the terrorist acts so far she faced in her personal and political life, the Prime Minister in her speech reiterated her full commitment to battling terrorism in all its forms saying her government has a "zero tolerance policy" towards terrorism.
4.25.1 In order to ensure that fresh vegetables and other perishable items from the northern part of the country reach their destinations easily without losing their quality, direct air booking facilities for these products from Rajshahi and Syedpur Airport will continue to exist.
16.2 In case of import of food items from any country, the shipping documents must be accompanied by radioactivity-test reports from the concerned authority of the exporting country indicating the level of CS 137 found in such radioactivity-test in each kilogram of food items shipped.
In 2008, as we formed the government through the victory in national election, the responsibility of updating the education policy prepared earlier with some fixed objectives was entrusted on some eminent educationists and subsequently views of people belonging to diverse classes and professions were received.
to take effective steps to ensure the acquisition of essential knowledge, subject-based knowledge, life skills, attitudes, values and the sense of social awareness to meet their basic learning needs that will enable them to move ahead to the next level of education.
1. Concepts will be given to the students so that they can realize that the Almighty is at the root of all creations, and the Almighty is the root of religion and students will know about the theory of creation and religion.
6. The curriculum and syllabus at graduate and post-graduate levels will be restructured to inspire the creativity and liberal thinking of the learners and they will feel initiated to newer researches so that they can move ahead with a strong foundation.
1. It is necessary to take immediate steps to make adjustments between the educational qualification or technical expertise, acquired during student life with the demand of the job market so that employment facilities can be ensured for the students after completing education at any level.
Bangladesh Army, Navy, Air Force, Rifles, Police, RAB, Ansar & VDP, Special Security Forces, President Guard Regiment, etc institution can change their Official Address with the signature and seal of the respective unit heads or certain high ranked officers rather than key contact person.
By visiting this website, you agree that the laws of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, without regard to principles of conflict of laws, will govern these Terms and Conditions and any dispute of any sort that might arise between you and this website.
Memories of his actions in August 1971 became tinged ever more with sadness for him as my father witnessed the ever-growing contrast between what he then had hoped for his country and the actuality of the society in which he and my mother were living.
This is where the Colombo Process could be used by labour sending and destination countries in sharing good practices and exchanging views on our collective concerns, including issues of minimum wage, acceptable working conditions, minimum contractual period, health benefits and general welfare and so on.
Communications from the President to the House shall be made to the Speaker by written message signed by the President, but if the President is absent from the place of sitting of the House, his message shall be conveyed to the Speaker through a Minister.
A family where there is every chance for development- scope for playing, elder members play with the children, play music for them, tell stories to the children, take them outside to satisfy their curiosities, respond to their different questions with patience.
Nylon is used to make under garments, mosquito-net, bed cover, cover of furniture, cloth for umbrella, rope, lace, knitting thread, net to catch fish, cover of leather goods, carpet, bags for different games, e.g., golf, etc. as this fiber is long lasting and flexible.
In the case of an arbitration tribunal constituted with three arbitrators, if the parties do not agree otherwise, each of the parties shall appoint one arbitrator and such appointed arbitrators shall appoint the third arbitrator who shall be the chairman of the arbitration tribunal.
You think that the curse of illiteracy is the cause of people’s poverty and that the student community can play an important role in eradicating illiteracy by way of opening night schools for the young and the old in the villages.
The State shall endeavour to create conditions in which, as a general principle, persons shall not be able to enjoy unearned incomes, and in which human labour in every form, intellectual and physical, shall become a fuller expression of creative endeavour and of the human personality.
A person traveling in a foreign country can bring his or her vehicle along with himself or herself if authorized under the carnet de passage by the Customs Authorities or any other appropriate authority, or authorized against the indemnity bond submitted to the Customs Authorities with the condition to re-import.
9.1.3 Importers already registered shall submit two copies of application in writing to their nominated banks indicating the category in which they intend to be classified and shall pay renewal fees in cash to their nominated banks against proper receipt at the rate prescribed for the said category.
The tag so attached shall bear the signature of all those who were involved in the collection of the sample i.e. the representative of the customs authority, the importer’s representative and the representative of port authority or the master of the ship, as the case may be.
16.15.1 Imported rice, wheat, other food cereals and food stuff must be produced in SAARC or South-East Asian Countries and a certificate of origin, issued by the related Government or approved Agency of the exporting country, shall be submitted, along with import documents to the Customs Authority.
On arrival of milk food and dried milk in the country, the consignment shall be subject to radioactivity test for the second time before release of the goods and the goods shall be released only if the radioactivity level is found within the acceptable as well as approved limits.
The Chief Controller shall, however, forward to the Ministry of Commerce with his opinion such other cases that involve import of items in the control list or items otherwise restricted for import as per any other provision of the Import Policy Order for decision regarding relaxation of the relevant provisions.
On export of ready-made garments made by using imported grey fabrics, the same shall be endorsed in the Pass Book as per existing procedure for the purpose of adjustment showing that the entire quantity of imported grey fabrics has been fully utilized in the garments exported.
It is crucial for our future generation to acquire quality, modern and updated knowledge of science and technology and evolve as a skilled human resource so that they may contribute to eradicate poverty, illiteracy, corruption, communalism and backwardness and build up a developed and prosperous Bangladesh.
Those children who cannot be in the schools till 100% enrollment is ensured at the primary level or drop out of primary education are supposed to receive some basic education or vocational training to use their skills in real life situations through the non-formal schooling system.
7. Students not taking part in this public examination will be eligible to have a certificate from the school attesting the completion of studies till Class VIII including the report of evaluation of internal examination and continual assessment with their date of birth recorded in the certificate.
3. The curriculum and syllabus of all stages of educational levels including primary and secondary will reflect the spirit of liberation war, the context of liberation war, its spirit and factual narrative, language movement, the existing realities of the country, mother language, literature, culture and history.
It is my pleasure to be here with you at the inaugural session of the Second Ministerial Meeting on Rural Development in the Asia-Pacific Region organized by the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives in collaboration with the Centre on Integrated Rural Development for Asia-Pacific Region
Given the rich heritage of "Bangla" language, and its singular place as a symbol of people's faith in the power of languages to sustain cultures, and indeed the identity of nations, I seek support of the members of UNGA for its acceptance as an official language of the United Nations.
If notices of more than one identical Bill are received, the Bill securing first place in the ballot shall be proceeded with and other similar Bills, if the Bill securing first place in the ballot is moved for leave for introduction in the House, shall not be admissible.
If we draw pictures related to our country’s culture, life style, environment and nature then by the description of those pictures, almost whole feature of every country could be reflected which will tell about the life-style, culture and tradition and grow bilateral good relation among the countries.
With the initiatives taken by former British prime minister Winston Churchill and president of United States Theodore Roosevelt there were long discussions with the leaders of the different countries, Consequently on 24 October, 1945 in San Francisco city of the United States, the United Nations was established.
Still holding the twisted thread firmly with your thumb, take the needle out of the twist and back to the starting point and insert it close to where the thread first emerged , pull the needle through to the back, leaving a small knot on the surface.
The honour most respectfully to state that in view of my father’s straitened circumstances I got admitted to this night college with the hope that I should manage to get a job to do during the day-time, but my hopes turned out to be an empty moonshine.
Although these elderly commentators have gained popularity during their youth youth, presently, due to old age and lack of sight, sitting in the commentary box they can not properly identify the field players and failing to give commentary on the series speed due to lack of memory.
