I love my motherland.
We live in society.
Ignorance is similar to darkness.
Earthquake causes a great disaster.
Books are man's best companions.
English is an International language.
We cannot non-cooperate with nature.
What is your salary?
He reads the newspaper everyday.
I go to university everyday.
What are you doing?
The girl can dance gracefully
You are reading a book
He is fluent in speaking.
Please let me go.
It's written on the ticket.
Which novel have you read?
The drama was very interesting.
He talks like his father.
It was easy to do.
They ran into the room.
Love the children.
She is watering the plant.
We do not take tea.
The boys are playing hockey.
He shall go there.
We are here to help.
Evening News:
Everybody was looking for safety.
How strange is this world!
Passengers would have benefited.
The class had just started.
Ronju quickly sat down.
The street was empty.
He was alone.
Then he suddenly stopped walking.
I stopped talking.
I will stay with you.
Everything else is ready.
He can speak very tidily.
It’s a picture of bull.
This nature has colourful appearance.
Each name is beautiful.
He has tolerated everything.
We obey their guidance.
Government operates all state functions.
Dictatorship is an arbitrary system.
Parliamentary government has some demerits,
We cannot extend it.
These are described below:
This is called child trafficking.
It has some brightness.
Identify rational and irrational numbers
Construct triangles from given conditions
What conclusion can you draw?
He wrote five books.
It became politically unstable too.
This subject is quite modern.
But life is like that.
I missed you every moment.
It was an interesting game.
I was enchanted.
It is my hobby.
Trees are our great friends.
You are now terribly upset.
You may start with walking.
He needs help from you.
They utter objectionable words.
The police cannot arrest them.
Think, you are a student.
We conduct trade and international relationship through English.
Corruption is pervasive everywhere today in our society.
Water is an important element of environment.
Most of the countries have their own dictionaries.
A walk in the sea-beach is a unique experience.
It thoroughly shook me with horror.
Education plays a vital role in the alleviation of poverty.
We should save the earth’s wild creatures to save ourselves.
Power is the source of all strength.
His teaching methods are well-planned, scientific and effective.
An irregular person is an enemy to himself.
No rational explanation is possible for it.
Curiosity leads men to travel from one place to another.
Thus the effect of inadequate knowledge is disastrous.
Pure drinking water is essential for health.
Most teachers are not so efficient in teaching English.
Everybody knows that death is inevitable.
There is no protection against this natural phenomenon.
In fact, climate on earth is constantly changing.
This corruption causes much harm to a nation.
Trees are destroyed mostly for being used as fire wood.
He sat in the usual morning traffic jam.
Harry Potter must not put himself in peril.
I have bought an umbrella for you.
How many students were there in your class yesterday?
I learn English with shohag sir.
I have recognized you by some information.
It was telecast after the Bengali news at 8:00 pm.
How can the attitude of your father be?
The boy who came here is my brother.
Do not start till I give the order.
It will take me a month to finish the work.
I heard him sing a song.
Printed label shall not be pasted on the container separately.
7. Nursing training centers will be attached to hospital management.
Other customers will request at customer contact points.
Their decision will be deemed as Final.
But where is your conspiracy declaration form?
All his life he had to undergo so much sufferings.
At this point, Prime Minister tried to change the subject.
From now on, his name is Rashed.
How long will it take to reach the border?
So Father and Mother had no idea about anything.
All that we see around us is nature.
Two Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were completely destroyed.
Every state has its definite territory and population.
Laws are made for the welfare of the people.
This form of government is negligible in number.
Elected representatives of the people will administer the country.
Jatiya Party is the country's third largest Party.
Most of the people of our country are poor.
Besides, children have a special right to safety.
These appliances make our activities more easy and comfortable.
Indoor games increase intelligence and creativity.
We get these necessary minerals from food.
We can rub hard while washing them.
Locate the rational and irrational numbers in the number line
To understand the relationship do the following group activity.
His period did not mark any special progress.
Bangladesh needs clean politics and sound statesmen.
I shall wait for you at the railway station.
It is indispensable in our daily life and work.
Really it was enjoyable although I was alone.
I am giving you a short description of it.
I know you are very busy with your studies.
I am impressed to visit the museum.
Fruits are a great source of vitamins and minerals.
However, I enjoyed my winter vacation very much.
But everything depends on your kind permission.
The condition of the supplied food was really awful.
If everybody spoke the truth, all misdeeds including terrorism and corruptions would cease for ever.
We do not need to incur any expenses in order to acquire it.
If any one thinks himself happy, it is easy for him to be happy.
In our country the scene of a summer night is different in towns and villages.
When the events were over, the chief guest distributed the prizes.
Though the victim, however, recovers from physical pain, the painful experience can never be forgotten.
When they give money to their children, they tell them to expend the money calculatively.
Games and sports play a vital role in forming one's personality.
But at the same time we lost the invaluable thing- morality.
and so this habit should be cultivated quite early in life.
Mango is the king of fruits being highly rich in vitamin 'C' and 'A'.
A host country can know the other parts of the globe through a trade fair.
A thing cannot become as precious as gold only by way of glittering.
They sometimes buy children from local agents at a very high rate.
Like different kinds of trees we see different kinds of people in our society.
Arsenic pollution has been a threat to the life of our people.
However, the students should not assume that their duties are over.
So, we have to give a serious thought to this problem.
In schools, colleges and various offices discipline is an imperative necessity.
The art of teaching in modern times has undergone a revolutionary change.
The citizenship of Bangladesh shall be determined and regulated by law.
The writer exposed the character well, so I liked the character.
They need to distribute pure drinking water in the flood affected areas.
A young man finds great difficulty in picking up his profession.
The Ministry of Commerce has taken the initiative to install a National Trade Portal.
The Computer Council will monitor everything concerning sale of old computers.
and The Education Boards concerned with examination will conduct this public examination.
The task will be undertaken by high professionals and specialized organizations.
3. Primary and secondary schools across the country will be encouraged to introduce this.
This is equally applicable to government and non-government institutions providing health, agriculture and technical education.
All these benefits will help the company to have a competitive edge in the market.
It’s the perfect service to communicate with your friends and family– wherever you may be.
4. What will be the activation and de-activation procedures for the new offer?
If the intended receiver agrees to pay, the receiver will be charged for the call.
A system to buy establishment after 10 years is also remained in the contact.
We are eternally grateful to those who have given their lives for this country.
Once I was unable to feed him because I had fever.
I wanted to listen but I did not understand what the teacher said.
This opinion poll reported that 42 percent voters will cast their votes for BNP alliance.
Global warming is also an alarming issue for all of us.
The briefing was in preparation for the War College delegations' upcoming study tour in Bangladesh.
She brought her head down near my face and said, Look.
People would come with all kinds of stuff to sell from the nearby areas.
The origin, nature and functions of these institutions are also discussed in Civics and Citizenship.
so they perform duties and responsibilities properly to the state and stand by justice.
Good relationship between rulers and ruled is created by rule of law.
State provides road infrastructure, orphanage, temporary lodging, subsidiary on food and employment opportunities.
However, too much change can again create an obstacle to progress.
These organizations perform as a line organization to execute various government task.
The head of the political party is the leader of the party.
For developing the living standard of the people, the educated people's community keep on trying.
There will be no long intervals in the practice of Exercise.
Experts of Home Science have mentioned about five changes as the techniques of work simplification.
At present, use of tiles has become popular in making a floor of a house.
It increases intelligence, tolerance, sympathy and helps to build sharing attitude.
Create awareness against child trafficking among the children and elders in your own locality.
Her lack of interest in all matters makes her family anxious.
Fungus and insects also grow in dried foods, rice and pulses.
If you follow the picture you will gradually get the design.
This is why we need to iron the clothes to increase their beauty and tidiness.
The four fundamental operations in Mathematics are Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication and Division.
the sum of the measures of the three angles of a triangle is 180 degree.
1. What do you understand by data, Explain with an example.
It will not only destroy you, but also will destroy our whole family.
Write a letter to your friend describing the adverse effects of drug addiction.
You wanted to know what I suggest you to do after the examination.
For this purpose you need reservation of a first class compartment.
To remove this situation political parties and other organizations have many duties to do.
It has become almost impossible for the common people to maintain their family.
They create noise in the room and take alcohol and also other drugs.
It is known to all that the present age is the age of knowledge and science.
On that day we tastefully decorated the college and put up a beautiful dais on the sports ground in front.
So he will not be late for going to bed and will enjoy a sound sleep.
It appears that something is wrong somewhere and more effective measures have to be taken to make the campaign successful.
Since friendship is not simply a relationship, it is a spiritual bond, real friendship never ends.
It is a sacred duty of the children to obeys the orders of the parents and abide by their instructions.
Students have now become the victim of politics as they are mostly exploited by the politicians.
To make the country free from corruptions citizens of all classes should be responsible, accountable, dutiful and considerate.
Educated people can enormously contribute to raise the standard of living and elevate the value system of a nation.
If we mix with the bad, we shall get their bad habits and gradually become bad ourselves.
It is a common human failing to make mistakes, but only a man with divine quality can forgive others faults.
Trees are uprooted and big branches of trees are broken down, thus roads are blocked up.
A joint or extended family consists of father, mother and their married sons and grandsons and daughters.
United States government postpones Bangladeshi product's GSP facility to improve working conditions of the garment’s labour.
He has been able to gain popularity among the local people by taking part in various development activities.
this unresolved issue had been pending for the last 64 years obstructing the everyday life of my people.
In case of import of Bone and Meat Meal, name of the source animal is to be mentioned.
3. Posts for teachers and number of classrooms will be increased in every school to facilitate pre-primary schooling.
17. Appropriate steps will be taken to fill in the vacant posts in vocational and technical institutes.
4. In vocational and technical education, there must be the scope of learning graphic design, multimedia, animation etc.
So 'BKSP' must be developed into a full-fledged sports university so that it can produce sports-persons of international standard.
5. All educational institutions, regardless of their levels and types, must be registered with appropriate authority.
We want to make it easy for customers to get what they want, when they want it.
Ans: If you have less than the required balance, the system will not send any message.
Subscriber can opt-in for the optional rate plan or may stay with the default plan as per their choice.
Now you can let your friends listen to their favorite tunes every time they call you.
Grameenphone has always striven for bringing the very best offers for its subscribers that will suit their telecommunication needs.
He joined the Telenor Group in 1974, and he has held a number of managerial positions and international assignments.
A customer will pay a service fee of BDT 20 per seat for availing an electronic ticket through this service.
Two very high ranking officials of a detective agency would be present in the visiting room.
I was able to witness the efficiency of these judges while the case was being heard in the court.
Now, if I declare Churchill as the Defender of the Nation, my people may get very confused.
Bangladesh has to reform the whole process in a way so that it doesn’t become a conduit of punishing oppositions.
I hope this meeting will conclude successfully with some practical and bold recommendations aimed at addressing the problems.
Rapid, unplanned urbanization, occupational dislocations, food, water and land insecurity are some of the consequences of climate change.
Apart from these, there are Shelter Homes and Safe Custodies for women, children and adolescent girls.
How a kid of his size could know such hard English was a mystery to us.
Uncle said, pale faced, What will happen to my little boys and girls, only God knows.
Various types of packets will have to be made to export the products in the market and abroad after production.
In the villages the wood at the head of the cot is usually adorned with a pair of peacocks.
Now let us make the design appear on handkerchief drawing flower, creepers and herbs with legi-deisy stitch.
Besides, we become politically conscious by listening to and taking part in discussions by elders in the family.
it is important for all of us to know about the characteristics, classification and sources of law.
as a result, The government becomes self-restraint in its deeds and tries to do good deeds.
Dual Work: Students will discuss on the conscription process of the president and make a list of his main qualifications.
Prepare a list of the activities of a political party that creates hope in the minds of the people.
Through this agreement, the structure of a different type of Local government has grown up in the region.
On the other hand in several areas it is found that one male gets more than one marriage.
Changing of climate is attacking Bangladesh in various ways and will continue to do the same later on.
So in a society, there are many types of people and we can live near each other.
It is essential to have the knowledge about the characteristics of the lines to decorate home more attractively.
Men started to live in a group to protect themselves from all the odds and thus social life began.
The place where children will play should be full of light and air, open and safe.
If the children of tender age are engaged in risky works, their physical, mental and social development get hindered.
This is why fat should not be taken more than it is needed for the body.
We have different kinds of deficiency diseases due to the scarcity of minerals for a long time.
By preserving seasonal fruits for other seasons we can meet the need and demand of foods.
Satin stitch– This stitch is used to cover the inner side of a flower, leaf etc.
Clothes have the risk to get burned as we cannot control the temperature of a coal iron.
Mathematics plays an important role in developing scientific knowledge at this time of the 21st century.
But if we take any of them as definition of parallel straight lines the other two properties can be proved.
Arabic literature was not part of the curriculum, but the Quran and hadith were studied as literature.
But since I was deep into my examination, I could not make time to write to you earlier.
In your letter you have asked me to describe some of the world heritage attractions in Bangladesh.
Age old system of keeping record in files is gradually making way for computer based data processing.
In the twinkling of an eye all the dwelling houses were destroyed and standing crops were leveled to the ground.
More dustbins should be provided and people should have the habit of keeping waste in definite places of dustbins.
Now, write a letter to the editor of a newspaper complaining about the water logging in the city streets.
Had there been semester system in public examination in our country, this curse of private coaching would have been abolished.
It has become a common affair nowadays that we live most of the time at night in darkness.
The machineries are made for man but man has become so dependent on them that as if they were our directors.
Rivers, canals and ponds contain the splendid image of the sky with the moon and the stars in their transparent water.
The founder of the bank Professor Muhammad Yunus and the bank itself have won the Nobel Peace Prize in the year 2006.
They are poor peasants, landless labourers, the artisans, the blacksmiths, the weavers, the fishermen and the people engaged in such other useful work.
The project includes funding the ICT equipment like laptops, web cams and fingerprint scanners, required for completing the nation wide digital voter registration.
The greedy land grabbers build up buildings along the bank of rivers which create hindrances in the normal flow of water.
This is a state at continuous anxiety which eats into his vitals and causes him many serious problems including fatal heart disease.
The sacrifice made by the martyrs will act as a perennial source of inspiration for me to work for the country.
Though there is distinction between right and wrong in different countries, bribe is acknowledged as a crime in all the countries of the world.
After this the other came down from the tree and asked his friend, 'what did the bear whisper in your ear’?
By drinking arsenic polluted water, people suffer from different kinds of problems, such as, sore on the body, serious skin diseases and serious stomach troubles.
Political, economical, social, foreign policy- in every sector we have so frustrating a state that we can hardly dream of bright 21st century for Bangladesh.
Privacy is ensured as the e-mail is delivered to an individual's mail box which can be accessed or opened by the intended recipient.
German culture appeared long before the rise of Germany as a nation and was extended throughout the entire German speaking world.
Three days later, the Dursleys were showing no sign of relenting, and Harry couldn’t see any way out of his situation.
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has ruled out the necessity of sitting for talks with the opposition leader about different problems existing in the country.
Reviewing and providing necessary directions about the country’s export situation annually at least once or more by the “National Committee on Export”;
5.4.4 All cooperation will be provided for faster completion of leasing procedures for tea estates which have not yet completed such procedures;
In case of import in drum or bottle or container the date of production and date of expiry must be mentioned on it.
This Policy attaches importance to the natural sensitivity of people and also to the delivery of education that helps find employment in the material world.
3. To achieve excellence in the stream-related subjects, the syllabus will be designed as per needs and specific syllabus will be developed accordingly.
7. Emphasis will be given on economics, sociology, development, poverty eradication and management while preparing the curriculum and syllabus of engineering education.
This education provides the students with knowledge of the painting, sculpture, music, plays, folk performances and theatrical arts of the country.
Among these three areas, only the first one is evaluated in the existing or traditional system of our schools, colleges and universities.
9. Measures will be taken to establish government secondary schools and government colleges in the upazilas where these do not exist now.
Grameenphone Team Tracker is an enterprise solution for business organizations which enables the business managers to improve the speed and quality of field force activity.
Studyline is another innovative service brought for the first time in Bangladesh by Grameenphone with the intention of serving the school, college and university students.
The lack of availability of an easy facebook usage experience has been a major hindrance to higher consumer visits from their mobile.
However, it does not warrant that product descriptions or other content of this site is accurate, complete, reliable, current, or error-free.
Both parties expect that free flow of information will help ensure transparent and accountable governance, which will lead to empowerment of the people in Bangladesh.
Even though almost half of them lost their lives to the Pakistani army, the rest of them managed to escape from the cantonment.
But it will be even harder to hear of more women widowed in the future as another year goes by without action.
and no Iraqi official wandered up to inquire why two diplomatic cars were present at the post so early in the morning.
I can’t walk across the field even if I want to because I do not have the freedom that he enjoys.
Ms Merrill informed survey works are carried out not only for such products, but also for large projects, such as, building extensions of Heathrow Airport.
We know that the process of taking proceeds of criminal activity and corruption and making them appear legal is called money-laundering.
If we are able to build a generation equipped with proper education, knowledge and wisdom, the subsequent generation will follow the suit.
Let us also not forget, therefore, that their existence and those of other species provide a natural support to our own existence in this planet.
We have already transformed 100 Union Parishads to host e-Centers in 2009, and expedited to process to cover all 4,500 Union Parishads by this year.
The Secretary shall arrange Government business in such order as the Speaker may, after consultation with the Leader of the House, determine:
He couldn’t bowl or bat, and even while fielding he would stand there and think about things only he knew about.
Then he looked at us and said, You do know that you’re not allowed to go through the school, don’t you?
4. Artists are urgently needed for drawing maps, drawing pictures for books of schools and colleges, and for books of medicine and polytechnic institutes.
The designed plate or terracotta is such a relief work which remains high on the floor or ground of the plate size soil.
For instance, they become addicted to different types of drugs; instead of taking care of the body by hurting they damage the human body.
In addition, with the rise of population, the aspiration and necessity for having private property began to grow among the people.
To make provision for trial of people accused for crime against humanity in the War of Liberation in 1971 and committing war crimes.
In 1990, the political parties of Bangladesh established democratic rule by removing the anti-people military government through unanimous opinions of all political parties.
she first inspired other women to contest in the reserved seats allocated at the local and parliament levels and then to contest in other seats.
By the established cement factories beside the Dholeshori river of Munshigonj the water, land and air are being poisonous due to pollution.
the learners can develop themselves as active and proper citizens through the exercise of various local and global games and sports.
It is easy to Steps of Home Management and Household Resources initiate an action if we know what to do and how to do.
Such as, i) Free shape or form– Except the geometrical form all kinds of shapes are called free form.
When there is an opportunity to mix with other children and to have the company of older members of the family.
In the previous lesson you have learned about the strong family bond and loving environment for the development of the child.
In a balanced diet a person gets all kinds of nutrition properly from different foods according to the need of his body.
For example- pumpkin, sweet pumpkin, arum, potatoes etc., some fruits, e.g., guava, olive, jujube, etc. and egg, ginger, garlic, onion etc.
In the older days, raw materials for embroidery were pure silk thread, threads made of gold and silver, expensive pearls and other gems etc.
Special attention has been paid to the flourishing of creative talents of the students and for selecting and presenting the topics of the textbooks.
If Bangladeshi Tk. 1 is equal to Indian 0.63 Rupee, how much Bangladeshi taka would he need for Indian 3000 Rupee?
(4) If each of equal quantities is divided by the same non-zero quantity, their quotient will also be equal to one another.
If the three sides of one triangle are equal to the three corresponding sides of another triangle, then the triangles are congruent.
In Chittagong, Noakhali and Sylhet, the indigenous people were afraid of settling in the forest zones for the fear of jinnee and wild animals.
He, observing the lack of coordinated efforts and the total disorganization of Circles, proposed the revival of the post of Director General.
The Shat Gambuj Mosque is situated in the suburbs of Bagerhat, at the meeting point of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers.
Write an application to the principal of your college requesting him to allow the college play-ground for a friendly football match.
Therefore, pray and hope that you would be kind enough to advance the date for the test examination by one week more and oblige.
Drug addicts move at large everywhere in the streets, in the parks, in the hospitals and even in the educational institutions.
4) Violence, killing, unrest, illegal toll collection in the industrial arena cause closure of the existing industries and create unemployment problem.
Now, write a letter to the Manager of a hotel complaining about the quality of food supplied by them in your office.
A visit to a historical place makes us forget the harsh realities of our life and within a moment we become one with those ancient people.
The playing of various kinds of motor vehicles as well as the running of mills and factories emit poisonous gas and smoke that dangerously pollute air.
Unless and until it is tackled to a radical cure, the country cannot stabilize its politics, sustain its development and deliver the goods to its people.
The other characteristics of the poem are its pictorial beauty, dramatic presentation, dreamy suggestiveness and romantic pathos, which have together made it into a lyric of unsurpassed excellence.
Mango, jackfruit, litchi, papaya, black berry, banana, pineapple, watermelon, guava, lemon, star fruit, honey dew etc are available during the summer season between May and July.
It is true, over the last few years they have become increasingly visible as providers of productive labour, but they are deprived of equal labour benefits.
But in the grading system the candidates are placed in A+, A, B, C, D and F grade in each subject and there is no first, second or third place.
But, whatever may be the volume and nature of the dictionaries, they aim at helping the people to learn particular word, term, subject and what not.
Today's children are the future adult people and if a large number of our future adults are oppressed and exploited, we cannot expect anything for the nation.
United States has taken this decision because of fire in tazrin fashions and an accident in Rana Plaza where more than 12 hundreds labor had died.
Relating education to the needs of society and producing properly trained and motivated citizens to serve those needs; removing illiteracy within such time as may be determined by law.
“The teapot went berserk and squirted boiling tea all over the place and one man ended up in the hospital with the sugar tongs clamped to his nose.
The Prime Minister repeated her appeal to declare Bangla as one of the official languages of the United Nations, spoken by about 300 million people across the world.
While exporting products for which quality control certificate is obligatory, the exporter will have to submit to the Customs Authorities a quality control certificate issued by the appropriate authority.
In order to encourage the increased use of local raw materials by composite knit or hosiery textile and clothing manufacturing units, bonded warehouse facilities will be progressively reduced.
7.8 The possibility to provide attractive and competitive rate of fare will be reviewed by Bangladesh Railway so as to encourage the use rail service for transportation of products;
No formal sanction shall be necessary from the sponsoring authority for such import against cash foreign exchange in respect of industrial units in the free sector;
The importers shall also bear the expenses relating to the test conducted by the Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, of such RBD palm stearine.
24.14.2 Aluminum waste and scrap (H.S. Heading No. 96.02 and all H.S. Code classifiable under this heading) will be imported by recognized industrial units manufacturing Aluminum utensil.
He said, 'cancel the bond license of those who are importing clothes after closure of factories.'
A properly educated nation, which is modern in genius and intellect and forward-looking in thinking, can only put the country at the zenith of its development.
Pre-vocational education will be in place from Classes six to eight to develop respect for manual labour and to give them primary idea of vocational education.
The illiteracy rate is rife in the country due to limited scope and rigidity of formal education on the one hand, and population explosion and poverty on the other.
2. Appropriate and quality books need to be authored so that the students become aware of different aspects of Buddhism including the religious rituals and customs.
8. Opportunities will be created for the students of science and other subjects to appear at national level examination system so that they can become IT manpower.
4. The infrastructure facilities, proper management and educational qualification and efficiency of teachers of law colleges will be ensured to improve the standard of Law Studies.
If the curriculum and syllabus gets changed, the student will be allowed to sit for those subjects in which he failed earlier, according to the previous curriculum or syllabus.
It is essential to find out whether all secondary schools or institutions are capable of delivering quality education and whether the fees charged for the students are justified.
Being one of the pioneers in developing the GSM service in Europe, Telenor has also helped to transfer this knowledge to the local employees over the years
Kaspersky Internet Security package enables you to use the following functionalities for protecting your desktop, laptop PCs and mobile: anti-virus, anti-spam, firewall, Web protection, anti-malware, Parental control, proactive protection.
Voice chat is a 24 hours open Voice based service which allows subscribers to dial a short code and chat with other interested people anytime from anywhere within GP network.
Grameenphone is going to introduce Facebook Java Application for its subscribers with free data offer for 30 (thirty) days from the day of launching the application.
7. The User agrees not to use this website for any other commercial purpose or any other use that runs against the law or good morals.
The BCG report was part of an in-depth research into the adoption rate of Internet and its impact in the emerging economies with special focus on Bangladesh, Thailand and Serbia.
Using the “Mobitaka” service, a commuter can, for the first time in Bangladesh, purchase electronic railway tickets at anytime and from anywhere from his mobile phone.
Therefore, if your password has been exposed for any reason, you should immediately email at this address or call 121 from any GP Number and change your password.
But there have been many reminders that for every year we fail to take action on climate change, the problem is getting worse for millions around the world.
and not the miracle solution to alleviation of poverty that it has been sold as by aid agencies and Grameen Bank — and the plethora of evangelistic microcredit organisations.
The people of the country had become fed up with the misrule, abuse of power, corruption, systematic loot, torture and cruelty perpetrated by the four-party alliance’s government.
Naturally, two opinion polls published only five days prior to municipal elections were due to attract interests of political parties, candidates, workers, supporters and of course, voters.
If we consider the poll published by Star just nine days ago, then we must say the appropriate headline should have been: “Star surprised at BNP’s gain”.
Both the two countries should, of course, be working in close cooperation to harness our synergies on these and other areas for the good of our two nations.
I am delighted to see that the existing strong bond between our two countries have become more intimate than ever before, keeping pace with our developmental cooperation.
Increasing frequency and ferocity of floods, cyclones, droughts, and other natural disasters, caused by this phenomenon, are creating havoc in the lives lost and the resources destroyed.
The health status of women has been improved, the rate of child and maternal mortality reduced due to effective initiatives of government in the health sector.
(2) A resolution which does not find place in the ballot shall not lapse but shall be included in the subsequent ballot in the same session of Parliament.
and mentioned about the trade delegation Mexican Government intends to send to Bangladesh soon while expressing recent upward trend in trade relations between the two countries.
Then he ran up to Azraf Ali and yelled, Hey you Pakistani collaborator, two freedom fighters are going to shoot you dead in five minutes.
2. Artists are needed in publicity of different topics of the government, to make poster and leaflets for walking on roads, the rules of running buses and trucks etc.
Putting the pitch board on the cloth we need to paste the glue in every corner and fix the extra paper by folding it with the board properly.
In other words, the organization which grows through marriage between one or more than one males and females including their children, parents and other members is called family.
A political party is that part of a country's populace which is organized to resolve the national problems on the basis of an ideology or some principles or program.
In spite of having these problems, through gaining the huge foreign currency by exporting the manpower to foreign country, this problem has become possibility in Bangladesh.
He told that after two years he will go to a foreign country and created pressure on Morjina to bring two lac taka from her father by selling land property.
He said this in a pre-budget discussion with the leaders of the concerned business organizations of different export sectors including garments, textiles, leather, plastic, shrimp at the revenue building in the capital on tuesday. 
In this case, weight of a child does not increase according to his age, a child loses interest in doing any work, and his face looks pale and sad.
The rest of the family members including the parents must behave well and help out the disabled child in taking care of him and in training.
And only after this, the simple units of the nutrients will become ready for the absorption of the body and thus, the body will get nutrition.
By preserving seasonal fruits and vegetables we can meet the need of these foods and use excess food in future and prevent these foods from getting spoiled and thus wasted.
Thus, we can make personality pleasant and attractive by taking care of our health, maintaining discipline, making ourselves independent, keeping ourselves tidy and adapting ourselves with different situations.
In order to face the challenges of the fast changing world and to accelerate the development and prosperity of Bangladesh, there is a need for well-educated human resources.
5. What is the cost of fencing around a 100 metre long and 50 metre wide rectangular park at a rate of Tk. 100 per metre?
If two angles and the adjoining side of a triangle are equal to two corresponding angles and the adjoining side of another triangle, the triangles are congruent.
Arbitration tribunal with the consent of the parties at any stage of the arbitration proceeding may settle the dispute by mediation, compromise or any other means.
Yet today the godly state of the sun in a broad expanse of the surging sea bend you down to a thoughtful state like the primitive man.
Now, write a petition to the Superintendent of Police of your district urging him to take necessary measures to check the menace of toll collectors in your locality.
Unscrupulous use of water, gas, electricity, telephone, office stationery, official transport and tours both inside and outside the country tell very heavily on our national economy.
Through your esteemed daily, I appeal to the authority concerned to look into the matter and find out ways and means to stop this violence in the educational institutions.
Should you kindly consider my application favourably and appoint me to the post, I shall leave no stone unturned to discharge my duties to the entire satisfaction of all concerned.
Dear Sir, I am very much regretful to inform you that I purchased a television set of a reputed company from your show room in the last week.
May be the friends again part and go back to their own worlds but this meeting remains a peerless piece of happy memory that later on in some idle moments pulsates in their mind.
Thus instead of coming to a total loss by trying to seize everything at time, we should pick up only so much of the things in each attempt as our grips can hold.
With all the turmoil involved in the aging process, it is no wonder that we are becoming a nation of frightened adults, forever searching for that magical youth serum from the elusive fountain of youth.
After receipt of the samples in the Laboratory Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission shall within twenty-four hours, send to the Customs Sample Room their report on the result of examination of the samples.
2. More attention will be given to the research and post-graduate courses at the university level to develop the resources of the country and solve different technical problems and to produce highly skilled engineers.
The qualities that are considered to be the most important factors for a student to build up his personality are related to acquisition of knowledge, emotional attitudes, responsiveness and intellectual faculties.
Internet is the most convenient medium of information, through which people can enhance their knowledge, spread the same from one corner of the globe to whichever place they wish with a single click.
By accepting the Privacy Policy and the Terms & Conditions during registration, you expressly consent to our collection, storage, use and disclosure of your personal information as described in this Privacy Policy.
On reading out the letter and without even speaking to my mother sitting by his side, whom he usually would consult on all important decisions, my father said “yes” and counter-signed the letter.
If Chittagong-Kunming road-rail link is established, India may feel, Bangladesh is trying to become strategically closer with China, bypassing India; But, you have to look at the interest of your country.
I believe that, this conference will play an important role to identify the main problems and find out the right direction for the development of the region through women empowerment by utilizing our limited resource.
The things we have to remember to draw these things are- subject-matter or length, breadth, height, its proportion to see the balance and to pay attention to its proper structure etc.
As the food grain is the food of the people of Bangladesh, especially priority of rice exists, so, supply of rice and sustainability of price is the main thing of gaining food security.
Negative attitudes create obstacle in the development of a child, for example- do not do it; do not do that; you cannot do anything– we should avoid saying these kinds of sentences to the children.
We need to be very careful to plan patient’s diet for these diseases because in this case our intestine gets infected directly and our body loses water and salt as a result of loose motion.
But in case of a handmade woolen cloth, we need to mend the shape of it by laying the cloth out on the picture of its original shape which was drawn before.
6. The buying price of cloth is Tk. 125 per metre ; if the shopkeeper sold it at the rate of Tk. 150 per metre, he gained Tk. 2000 as profit.
If the parties do not agree otherwise parties would appoint equal number of arbitrators, and such arbitrators collectively shall appoint an additional arbitrator who shall perform the responsibility of the chairman of the arbitration tribunal.
I, on behalf of all the students of the Department of English, beg to draw your kind attention to the fact that Arif, a student of honors 1st year, is seriously indisposed.
Sir, In response to your advertisement published in "The Daily Star” on 18th December 2010 for the post of a Medical Representative, I have the honour to apply for the same.
Immediate steps must be taken to remove this pollution such as- research and analysis of source of water, investigation of possibility of alternate source of safe water, marking of dangerous tubewell, arrangement of proper treatment of arsenic patients etc.
No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth be subjected to any disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to access to any place of public entertainment or resort, or admission to any educational institution.
The main objective of the Export Policy is to bring dynamism to the economic activities of Bangladesh and to make these activities outward-looking so as to enable Bangladesh to keep pace with the rapidly changing and competitive world trading system.
7.9.3 In case, where shipment could not be made within the validity period due to circumstances beyond control of the importer, the Chief Controller may extend the time limit for shipment of goods on the merit of each case;
16.16.2 The words "There is no alternative to breast-feeding" shall be printed clearly in relatively larger letters in Bangla in a visible space on each tin or Bag or in Box of baby food with cream.
25.1 Commercial import under cash foreign exchange or under Government Allocation- Commercial import will normally be made under cash foreign exchange, subject to availability of fund import of few commercial items may be allowed under Government allocation.
The nominated Bank, on being satisfied that the L/C Authorization Form is in order, will forward all the copies of the same to the nominated Banks of the group leader after making necessary entries in the importer’s Registration Certificate.
15. In the schools located in the wetlands and areas prone to frequent natural calamities, provisions will be there to change the timing of the school hours and to reschedule the holidays according to their needs.
Law studies will be analytical and pragmatic for the future generation students, so that they can play an active role to establish the rule of law, human rights and justice and also to protect national interests in the international arena.
A non-government teachers’ selection commission will be formed similar to Public Service Commission for recruitment of teachers based on their capability and merit for the non-government primary schools, approved and financially aided by government, ibtedaye madrasa, secondary schools and colleges.
For contractual purposes, you consent to receive communications from us electronically and you agree that all agreements, notices, disclosures and other communications that we provide to you electronically satisfy any legal requirement that such communications be in writing.
Raihan Shamsi also underscored that “SIM tax, which is limiting the growth of the mobile industry as well as the progress of bridging the digital divide, has been overlooked in the approved National Budget for 2010-11."
The Great Wall of China is a series of stone and earthen fortifications in northern China, built, rebuilt and maintained between the 5th century BC and the 16th century, to protect the northern borders of the Chinese empire.
Provided that the Speaker may allot different Thursday for the disposal of different classes of Private Members' business and on Thursday so allotted for any particular class of such business, business of that class shall have precedence:
Highlighting on the importance of the garment sector of Bangladesh in employment generation, women empowerment and export earnings, the labour Minister mentioned on the various steps taken by the present democratic government for welfare of the garments workers.
By stimulation we mean to make a child aware of his surrounding, to help the child see and interact with the surrounding and to create an environment for the child to actively play and participate in it.
In other words, formative design is a pattern which is used to give the basic frame of the fabric and decorative design is the pattern where a special diagram or design is used to make the fabric more attractive.
The frequency histogram has been drawn considering each side of the smallest squares of graph paper along x-axis to be one unit of class interval and two sides of the square along y-axis to be 5 units of frequency.
It is so enchanting that by the power of its magic stick it can mould the opinion and outlook of the people of the world and one country can Influence another by its culture and heritage through it.
I passed the SSC and HSC examinations (Humanities Group) of the Board of Secondary and Intermediate Education, Dhaka in 2000 and 2002 respectively from 'S' School and College, Dhaka and was placed in the first division in both.
There lies a lot of reasons behind the miserable condition of cricket in Bangladesh, such as lack of sufficient training under a dexterous coach, language problem of the coach, physical unfitness of our cricketers and lack of financial support from the government.
If a person throws litter on the street, builds a house in such a way that it causes inconvenience to his neighbors or plays music so loudly that it causes disturbances to others, then living in a city becomes a hellish experience.
Speaking at a 'Meet the Press' programme with journalists at Bangladesh's Permanent Mission at the United Nations here on Saturday, the Prime Minister posed the question, "Wouldn't the trial of war criminals be held in illegal interests of a political force?"
In case that a Government Order endorses a specific decision related to export, and in case the decision is not in conformity with any of the provisions of the Export Policy, then the aforesaid Government Order will get precedence over the Export Policy.
The Bank shall make an endorsement under seal and signature on the IRC of the importer indicating the value ceiling of annual import and the rate of renewal fees applicable in his case and return the original IRC to the importer concerned.
23.4 Adhoc IRC of the concerned industrial unit shall not be renewed until the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports issues clearance for the 2nd adhoc share or regularises its import entitlement on the basis of recommendation of the sponsoring authority.
Our major aim is to ensure that our next generation is provided with real education and knowledge of science and technology and thereby they will be developed into an efficient and skilled human resource, respectful and committed to people and inspired by patriotic spirit.
5. Initiatives will be taken for collaborative efforts with all the government and non-government organizations, civil societies through the coordinated means of diverse methods, materials, processes supplemented by joint efforts of the target groups to wipe out illiteracy from the country.
10. It is essential to establish a statutory, dignified and effective library council constituted with the representatives of the ministries of education, culture and local government to find solutions to the problems relating to policy making, planning and coordination and to undertake development programs.
In order to increase the benefits of the teachers of non-government institutions to the level of the government institutions, the government will gradually increase the salary and other benefits on the basis of availability of funds and the academic and training skills of the incumbent.
In a pre-budget discussion, the president of garments Association, BGMEA, Siddiqur Rahman, highlighted the withdrawal of taxes completely from the garments sector, reduction in corporate tax rate by 10 percent, vat withdrawal on using gas utility and water and several demands for the next three fiscal years.
If you continue to browse and use this website you are agreeing to comply with and be bound by the following terms and conditions of use, which together with our Privacy Policy govern GP's relationship with you in relation to this website.
Though, we guarantee the privacy or security of your information but always suggest you to be updated by yourself on the privacy and security policies of this website and its affiliated sites before entering into a transaction and choosing to share your information.
But, we would like to point out that the survey work has been carried out all over the country by the members of RRC and all kinds of adults and people belonging to different kinds of profession and vocation have taken part in the poll.
I am optimistic that the meeting will give enormous opportunities to CIRDAP to strengthen the ties between countries in the region leading towards contextualization of the rural development and poverty alleviation issues with the current changes and challenges facing the countries due to globalization.
Consequently, we saw that in the first session of the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan held on 23 February 1948, Mr. Dhirendranath Dutta from Commilla, an Assembly Member, tabled a bill of introducing Bangla as the language of assembly along with Urdu and English.
It is essential to know how much food is needed for a healthy person, how much food will keep the body healthy without making it too fat or too thin, which and what amount of food will fulfill the exact demand of the body.
With all these things under consideration Mathematics has been presented easily and nicely at the lower secondary level to make it useful and delightful to the learners, and quite a number of mathematical topics have been included in the text book.
On the application within sixty days of receipt of the arbitration award by any of the parties in case of any arbitration award made under this law other than an award made in an international commercial arbitration, the civil court may set aside such award.
May I, therefore, pray and hope that you would be kind enough to pass necessary orders to the section concerned so that I am provided with a registration card with the following correction of subject code and spelling mistake of my name.
The Prime Minister called upon all members of the UN to make their sincere efforts to have a binding agreement in Durban at the end of this year for reduction of greenhouse gases, migration of climate-induced persons and free technology transfer to developing countries to address climate change impacts.
5.6.4 In order to reduce losses during leather collection, preservation and processing levels, different awareness building initiatives will be taken regarding the removal of the skin from the animal, preservation, transportation etc. along with separate training courses and workshops for butchers and leather traders will continue to take place.
The banking and customs procedure relating to export from or import into the Export Processing Zone to or from any country outside Bangladesh shall be regulated in accordance with the instructions issued in that behalf by the Bangladesh Bank and the National Board of Revenue respectively from time to time;
If on test of samples of the consignment by the Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission, it is found that the consignment contains radioactivity level above the acceptable limit, the consignment shall not be released and the concerned exporter or supplier shall be bound to take it back at his own expense.
16.17.4 In case of import of milk food products and powder milk pre-shipment inspection shall be mandatory for determination of radioactivity level and the goods may be shipped only if in such test the radioactivity level is found within the acceptable limits approved by the Government.
The Chief Controller, in all such cases except those involving issuance of IP or CP for items in the control list or of the Import Policy Order, shall take into consideration all the relevant aspects of the cases for their proper assessment and expeditious disposal at his level.
24.4.4 Imported raw and packing materials shall be released by the Customs Authority on the basis of import-invoice and analysis report of the raw materials, certified by the Director, Drug Administration or Govt. approved internationally reputed Pre-shipment Inspection Agent regarding the quantity, value and quality of each item.
Importable refined edible oil must conform to the quality standard of the exporting country and to the standard of BSTI and valid certificates from the authorities of both the countries are to be submitted to the Customs Authority at the time of clearance of the goods.
5. Specific subjects such as Bangla, English, Moral Science, Bangladesh Studies, Mathematics, Social Environment, Natural Environment with emphasis on topics like climate change, Science and Information Technology are to be there in the syllabus as compulsory subjects for all students of diverse streams of primary education.
7. New courses will be introduced along with the traditional courses to upgrade agricultural studies in view of scientific progress and demands of national development (such as, environmental science, organic technology, genetic engineering, resources economics, management of bio-diversification, land-holdings and management, nutritional science and social science etc).
While preparing the textbooks, it will be kept in mind that real education must be related to real life and inspire the students with patriotism and the spirit of our liberation war and further facilitate the development of thinking ability, imaginative capability, inquisitiveness and creativity of the learners.
Anyone visiting this jail and looking at the conditions here will be able to understand the extent of the hardship he had to endure and the way he had staked his life, suffering day after day, to carry on the struggle for the rights of Bengalis.
With regard to Bangladesh, I would like to add that in the recently held Copenhagen Climate Summit, we have been able to draw the attention of the whole world about the severe consequences Bangladesh will face in the coming days without virtually contributing any harm to the environment.
Whenever the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker resigns his office, the Secretary shall, on receipt of an intimation to that effect in writing from the President, cause the resignation to be immediately published in the Gazette, and shall also circulate it to the members if Parliament is in session.
Where a message from the President under article 73 of the Constitution is received by the Speaker, he shall read the message to the House and give necessary directions in regard to the procedure that shall be followed for the consideration of matters referred to in the message.
Say, you have gone somewhere to travel, where there are fields after fields, small cottages at far away, even at more distance a few boats with sail in the river, a few birds are flying in the sky, there are some palm trees in the front.
therefore, besides making our dresses, we can use this fabric to make many other things, for example- we can make bed cover, saari, lungi, towel, mosquito-net, blanket, cover of sofa, napkin, other decorative things etc. with these fabrics, as it is comparatively cheap to use this fabric.
(1) Check the label and select the clothes- As different kinds of clothes have different rules to be taken care of, we need to know the kind of fibre that a cloth is made of and we should follow these instructions to take care of the clothes.
Prothom Alo: Though the names of those accused in the report of the investigation committee on the disaster of the stock market have been published in the media, but there is also talk about the irregularity shown by the government in full disclosure of the report.
The main objectives of this policy are to improve the poverty level, education, health, employment and many other problems by solving the problems of different sectors of the country by using the maximum of information and communication technology and thus, by 2021, Bangladesh will be upgraded to a middle-income country.
